unsorted/music.md, before:

Music
=====

    Music still does not make much sense to me, but here are my thoughts.
    Thinking of 'The Cello Song' (by Bach)
    
This is addressed more in the file called [beauty.md](beauty.md).
    
### Music sets the Atmosphere

>"They're not watching, the background.  They're not watching the actors.
>They're listening to the music." ~ George Lucas (Producing Episode 1 Podrace)

Watch a movie muted.  Feel the difference.

### Music vs Sounds

Sounds: When two things collide, they make a sound.  
Reverb: The distortion of a sound due to the environment, distance, and direction our ear is facing.
Music:  Actions performed for the sound.

### Song stuck in head

Factors that increase the likelihood that it will get stuck:

1. Simple
    1. 
1. We know it well
1. It is emotionally stimulating. (Good or bad - irritating or exhilarating)
1. Flowing (Not too choppy. Not too much variation)
    1. Even tempo (Just a guess)
    1. Repetitive
    1. Each section *leads into* the next.  
    
    
    The effect: Like any music, it sets the atmosphere.
    This can be positive if it has a motivating rhythm.
    
   
### High or Low Level?

##### Listening
Listening to music is usually a high level cognitive process.  Distracting unless it is congruent enough to merge with your current experience/train-of-thought.  Which is probably rare if ever.

##### Remembering
Remembering music can be a background-high-level activity.  It is easier than listening because it will switch off if you actually start thinking about something else.  And typically come back once your train-of-though stalls for a minute.  Like a low priority thread.
   
### Distracting

* We describe tones as "high" and "low". 
* Sound effects in cartoons are a great ~~annoyance~~ example of "music" reflecting the physical experience.
* Therefore, if it conflicts with the experience, it is distracting.

Example: Studying with music.  If the music is rapturous, it will steal the show (attention).
It will start producing "high" and "low" feelings.  (Remember that tactile and visual high-low may be
distilled to the same experience in memory*.  It is this experience that music is playing)

*My memory of "high" feels like a blob, slightly above my head, and to the right.
Now that I think about it, its almost like my right fist, as far up and back as I can reach it.

### Where do the feelings come from

    They may be hard coded, but if not, here are some guesses, using low-high sweep as the test case:
    
* Hands down is low, up high is high.
* Birds fly and make high sounds.
* Rocks dropping make low sounds.
* Playing piano is high on the right side.  So I tend to imagine high sounds over there.
* Stomping feet vs ringing ears
* Slow to fast. (Run a stick over a rock)

### Rhythm

Motivating.  Maybe relates to walking pace.

### Final Conclusions

##### What it does
* Harmony still makes no sense.
* Music plants abstract ideas in our heads. (Upward/downward/fast/slow/strong/soft)
* Music strongly influences our emotional state.

##### Why that is useful
* Helps motivate when needed.
* Helps creativity by presenting new mindsets.
* Outlet for communicating our feelings?
* Useful for suggesting the desired feelings for data we are presenting

##### Tone and Vocal Inflection
* Which came first, vocal inflection, or music?
* (Assuming one is mimicking the other)

##### Next Steps
* Solve the questions above.
* List the feelings (adjective) that music can produce.
    * Find correlations: Are they all physical? Hard-wired? Vocal? Primitive? Abstract/Concrete?

Commit message:

Adds motivation notes and music

unsorted/music.md, after:

Music
=====

    Music still does not make much sense to me, but here are my thoughts.
    Thinking of 'The Cello Song' (by Bach)
    
This is addressed more in the file called [beauty.md](beauty.md).
    
### Music sets the Atmosphere

>"They're not watching, the background.  They're not watching the actors.
>They're listening to the music." ~ George Lucas (Producing Episode 1 Podrace)

Watch a movie muted.  Feel the difference.

### Music vs Sounds

Sounds: When two things collide, they make a sound.  
Reverb: The distortion of a sound due to the environment, distance, and direction our ear is facing.
Music:  Actions performed for the sound.

### Song stuck in head

Some people listen to music as they work. Before MP3 players, 
you would simply play the songs in your head.
This may also be the canvas for composers.
    
This works better than listening to an MP3 because it can not distract you.
As soon as your high brain is engaged in something else the music may switch off;
Or it can keep playing if the low brain knows the song well enough.
When the low brain is playing the song, it tends to repeat the most well-known sections.
This does not explain why the high brain picks up the tune once it is done thinking.
Or does it?  Are we just listening to the low brain?  Probably.

Factors that increase the likelihood that it will get stuck:

1. Simple
1. We know it well
1. It is emotionally stimulating. (Good or bad - irritating or exhilarating)
1. Flowing (Not too choppy. Not too much variation)
    1. Even tempo (Just a guess)
    1. Repetitive
    1. Each section *leads into* the next.  
    
    
    The effect: Like any music, it sets the atmosphere.
    This can be positive if it has a motivating rhythm.
    Or calming, etc.
    
   
### High or Low Level?

##### Listening
Listening to music is usually a high level cognitive process.  Distracting unless it is congruent enough to merge with your current experience/train-of-thought.  Which is probably rare if ever.

##### Remembering
Remembering music can be a background-high-level activity.  It is easier than listening because it will switch off if you actually start thinking about something else.  And typically come back once your train-of-though stalls for a minute.  Like a low priority thread.
   
### Distracting

* We describe tones as "high" and "low". 
* Sound effects in cartoons are a great ~~annoyance~~ example of "music" reflecting the physical experience.
* Therefore, if it conflicts with the experience, it is distracting.

Example: Studying with music.  If the music is rapturous, it will steal the show (attention).
It will start producing "high" and "low" feelings.  (Remember that tactile and visual high-low may be
distilled to the same experience in memory*.  It is this experience that music is playing)

*My memory of "high" feels like a blob, slightly above my head, and to the right.
Now that I think about it, its almost like my right fist, as far up and back as I can reach it.

### Where do the feelings come from

    They may be hard coded, but if not, here are some guesses, using low-high sweep as the test case:
    
* Hands down is low, up high is high.
* Birds fly and make high sounds.
* Rocks dropping make low sounds.
* Playing piano is high on the right side.  So I tend to imagine high sounds over there.
* Stomping feet vs ringing ears
* Slow to fast. (Run a stick over a rock)

### Rhythm

Motivating.  Maybe relates to walking pace.

### Final Conclusions

##### What it does
* Harmony still makes no sense.
* Music plants abstract ideas in our heads. (Upward/downward/fast/slow/strong/soft)
* Music strongly influences our emotional state.

##### Why that is useful
* Helps motivate when needed.
* Helps creativity by presenting new mindsets.
* Outlet for communicating our feelings?
* Useful for suggesting the desired feelings for data we are presenting

##### Tone and Vocal Inflection
* Which came first, vocal inflection, or music?
* (Assuming one is mimicking the other)

##### Next Steps
* Solve the questions above.
* List the feelings (adjective) that music can produce.
    * Find correlations: Are they all physical? Hard-wired? Vocal? Primitive? Abstract/Concrete?
